Attendees: @you, @me (by Skype), @skilledra, etc.

**NIH Public Access Policy walk-through with Robin Champieux**
- Background:
    - The NIH has a Public Access Policy for peer-reviewed publications, to ensure public access to publicly funded research.
    - This means that these NIH-funded papers must be available on PubMed Central (PMC) within 12 months of publication. 
    - For this project, it is the job of the first author of the paper to make this happen.
    - At the end of this process your paper will have a PMC id number.
- Process for publishers who submit it on your behalf:
    - Most publishers will be willing to submit your paper to PMC on your behalf.
    - You will know this is true if you have an option to check in submitting the paper that says you would like them to submit it on your behalf.
    - If that's the case, you should know these things:
        - You will need to provide your NIH grant number to them when checking that option.
        - Once you check that option, you will get a notification (usually within a month) where they provide a pdf of your submission for you to approve.
        - You do want to proof the pdf they provide before approving it--sometimes formatting can be altered in this process.
- Process for submitting it independently:
    1. You need an NCBI account. Create one if you don't already have one.
    2. Go to https://www.nihms.nih.gov/db/sub.cgi. Go down to the bottom, and sign in through NCBI under the label "Publishers and Others"
    3. Click on Upload Manuscript
    4. Follow the steps listed there:
        1. Title
        2. Funding
        3. Choose your files (You have to upload a manuscript file, and you may also upload separate figures, etc. Your manuscript file cannot have the publisher's formatting, and must instead be your generated file.)
        4. Check files
        5. Set reviewer and embargo (The reviewer must be an author. As the first author, you should make the reviewer yourself. The embargo is either 12 months (the standard) if it's not given, or a specified and potentially shorter period given by the journal.)
- Other things to be careful about:
    - If the publisher does not submit your paper on your behalf, you will want to submit it independently *as soon as possible*. There is a 3-month grace period, but it is safest to get it submitted as soon as your paper is accepted.
    - PubMed Central (PMC) and PubMed (PM) are different. PMC is a repository for the NIH, while PM is an indexed journal of biomedical literature. Additionally, a PMC id number is different from a PM number. To be compliant with this Public Access Policy, you need a PMC id number.

    
**Main project overview + updates**
- MIND Institute perseverative speech coding--finalized! 
- WE HAVE NEW TRANSCRIPTS! From the MIND Institute 
    - Email @skilledra about access


**Housekeeping**
- Our CRQ 2017 has been approved by IRB (2017-10-02)
- Our repository protocol modification was approved (2017-10-02)
